[Music]
boy the links people will go to lose
weight is sometimes downright scary I'm
sure you've heard of those questionable
diet pills teas and even body creams
that supposedly help you burn fat but
one of the most dangerous ways to slim
down is prolonged fasting and one man
took it to the extreme when he stopped
eating altogether for over a year now it
goes without saying but I'm gonna say it
anyways and probably more than once the
following case should not be attempted
as a way to lose weight but it is
fascinating nonetheless as far as a
story about what the human body is
capable of in 1965 27 year-old Angus
Barbieri checked himself into Merrifield
Hospital in Dundee Scotland he was just
a normal guy worked at a fish and chip
joint with his dad and perhaps a diet of
fried foods was what contributed to his
obesity in any case his weight at the
time was 456 pounds he told the doctors
that he was ready to refuse food to lose
weight and they hesitantly agreed to
monitor his progress so mind you this
was all very carefully medically
supervised at first Barbieri wasn't
planning on fasting for too long and
even to this day most doctors agree that
short fasts are more effective than long
ones so the physicians at Merrifield
recommended that he didn't go more than
40 days without food but days turned
into weeks that turned into months
Barbieri kept on refusing food past the
forty day limit because he said he felt
okay he had his goal weight in mind and
what seems like unbeatable determination
to reach it but that wasn't the only
thing that kept him going again that's
where the doctors help came in for the
entire duration of this unconventional
weight-loss journey
Barbieri took potassium sodium and
vitamin supplements since he wasn't
getting any nutrients from food and he
didn't refrain from drinks either but
the ones he had were very low cal
they included mineral water tea and
black coffee
although toward the end he started
adding some sugar and mill the vitamin
diet seemed to be working all right
since Barbieri didn't experience any
problems that would require him to
remain in the hospital he stayed there
in the beginning just so doctors could
keep an eye on his health but he was
given the green light to go home since
his body was adapting to the hunger so
well one of the physicians said that
patients usually had to stay in the
hospital to resist their temptation to
eat but Barbieri had shown amazing
willpower and spent most of the time at
home he only had to go to the hospital
regularly to get tests done and the
doctors did in fact notice a very low
level of glucose in his blood glucose is
basically your body's energy source that
it gets from food and the low levels
confirm that his body really was in
starvation mode but surprisingly running
on an empty tank didn't interfere with
his daily routine and he said that he
felt fine the only thing the Scott had
to do was leave his job at his dad's
fish and chip shop because well that
would have been way too tempting
on July 11th 1966
Angus Barbieri's headline-making fast
finally ended after 382 days
the now unrecognizable man had lost a
whopping 276 pounds he reached his goal
weight of 180 pounds he'd end up with a
Guinness world record for the longest
fast known in history one year in
seventeen days by now you must be
thinking I'll bet he immediately wolf
down a five-course meal after starving
over a year but actually no he didn't
and for good reason too that likely
would have overloaded his system so
chances are a heavy meal would have
simply come right back up
Barbieri had just one boiled egg a piece
of bread with butter and a cup of coffee
for breakfast in his words he really
enjoyed his small simple meal and it
filled his tummy right up he also said
that apart from feeling a bit weak he
didn't have any major side effects at
the end of his fast Barbieri was looking
forward to a vacation in Spain and a
gradual return to eating with a careful
eye on keeping his weight stable he
slowly worked himself back up to a
normal life with ordinary food and
portions the doctors were shocked by not
only his unbeatable willpower but also
the unusual ease with which he lived
without solid food for so long but what
really stunned everyone was that he was
able to keep the weight off from the
very beginning that doctors were
especially doubtful about this factor
you see most people who try extreme
diets like this usually end up yo-yoing
right back to where they started that is
the body doesn't keep the weight off
but once Barbieri went back to eating
normal meals he only gained 15 pounds
Angus Barbieri eventually moved to
England where he settled down and
started a family although he holds a
pretty incredible world record it's
worth noting that Guinness has since
stopped recognizing such extreme fasts
so that people don't try these sorts of
dangerous stunts themselves but from a
medical perspective the case is quite
astounding how on earth was this man's
body able to go so long without food
well in 2012 Australian author and
science commentator dr. Karl Cruz ole
Nicky gave a lecture on the radio where
he explained the chemical processes that
allowed Barbieri to survive without food
for over a year according to the doc
after two to three days of starvation
energy starts coming from the body's fat
stores some fat molecules can be
transformed into glucose that fuel I
mentioned earlier
in theory the human body can live on
these fat stores until they run out but
after that you get into really dangerous
territory
because it'll start feeding on the
muscles and although these fat stores
can keep the body going that doesn't
mean the person will be in good health
that's why Barbieri was given
supplements and monitored very carefully
still scientists believe that this
starvation mechanism has deep biological
and evolutionary roots you see our
ancient ancestors didn't have the luxury
of a fridge chock full of food or a
grocery store right around the corner
they had to go days without eating when
they were hunting or looking for edible
plants these fast could be even longer
during winter probably lasting for weeks
and the body adapted to these conditions
during long periods of time without food
all internal processes like breathing
and heart rate became slower so that the
body doesn't use up and thus require as
much energy but winter no matter how
long it was wouldn't last for years once
early humans would start eating
regularly again after the rough periods
of little or no food then all those
processes sped right back up people who
start fasting often notice that at the
initial stage they have an unusual
clarity of thought almost as if their
brains are working more efficiently
scientists have an evolutionary
explanation for this - it was during
hunger periods that a malnourished brain
had to think of a way to get something
to eat if the brain shut down when the
body stopped getting food humanity would
have never survived it sounds quite
reasonable then that we're not supposed
to have unlimited access to food all
year round there could be a natural
scheme of fasting and eating that's not
only safe but also beneficial for our
health
still it's hardly possible that our
ancestors could survive without any food
for any longer than a few months
and that's why Angus Barbieri is such a
medical anomaly
to this day there's no scientific proof
that fasting for longer than 40 days can
do any good in fact there's more proof
that it's extremely harmful although
those doctors back in the 60s were
willing to help this guy on this
dangerous path to his goal weight or
perhaps they felt they really didn't
have a choice
since Barbieri had told them he was
gonna fast with or without their help
it's highly unlikely that such a thing
would happen today
and that's because there are so many
safer options when it comes to healthy
weight loss doctors nowadays can set
patients up with a nutritionist that'll
draw up a diet and exercise plan for
safe gradual weight loss over time
thanks to long-term lifestyle changes
that is starving oneself is certainly
not the way to do it but we can see the
case of Angus Barbieri's record-breaking
fast as proof that the human body is a
fascinating mechanism to say the least
so what ways do you think are the safest
when it comes to losing weight let me
know down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go falling face-first into a
plate of french fries just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life